# CIP 0096

<pre>
CIP: CIP 0096  
Title: Removing Liveness Rewards from Validator Rewards Pool  
Author: Chris Zuehlke / Andrew Bryan  
Status: Proposed  
Type: Tokenomics  
Created: 2025-12-07  
Approved: TBD  
License: CC0-1.0  
<pre>

## Abstract

As the network continues to grow, there is an increasing potential for the free rider problem to emerge with Validators and liveness rewards; Validators can collect liveness rewards as incentives from the network without otherwise participating in the network and adding utility. To mitigate this and encourage participation among validators operating on the network, we suggest adjusting the Validator liveness rewards cap while leaving other aspects of Validator rewards unchanged.

The reduction in liveness rewards would happen over a 30 day period following CIP approval, following the below schedule:

- On CIP Approval: Liveness rewards set to 50% of current levels  
- +15 Days from CIP Approval: Liveness rewards set to 25% of current levels  
- +30 Days from CIP Approval: Liveness rewards set to $0.60  
- +90 Days from CIP Approval: Liveness rewards set to 0  

New values in the Canton Coin DSO configuration would be set as follows for each stage:

- On CIP Approval: Validator Liveness Reward Cap = $2.5  
- +15 Days from CIP Approval: Validator Liveness Reward Cap = $1.25  
- +30 Days from CIP Approval: Validator Liveness Reward Cap = $0.60  
- +90 Days from CIP Approval: Validator Liveness Reward Cap = $0  

## Specification

### Updating Liveness Reward Caps

Super Validator node operators will perform on-chain votes to make the following changes.

#### Vote 1 - Effective Immediately

Change:

- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.0._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.1._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.2._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.3._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`

From:  
- 570  

To:  
- 2.5  

On DevNet, followed by TestNet and then MainNet.

#### Vote 2 - Effective 15 days after CIP approval

Change:

- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.0._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.1._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.2._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.3._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`

From:  
- 2.5  

To:  
- 1.25  

On DevNet, followed by TestNet and then MainNet.

#### Vote 3 - Effective 30 days after CIP approval

Change:

- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.0._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.1._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.2._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.3._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`

From:  
- 1.25  

To:  
- 0.60  

On DevNet, followed by TestNet and then MainNet.

#### Vote 4 - Effective 90 days after CIP approval

Change:

- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.0._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.1._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.2._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`
- `issuanceCurve.futureValues.3._2.optValidatorFaucetCap`

From:  
- 0.60  

To:  
- 0  

On DevNet, followed by TestNet and then MainNet.

### SV Reward Mechanics

- An `extraBeneficiary` PartyID associated with the ‘escrowed’ Super Validator will be setup by the Foundation, or another SV node operator approved to provide SV rewards escrow services, with an SV Weight at the maximum earnable weight.
  - The Applicant is responsible for coordinating the process of setting up the escrowed weights with the GSF and the operator of the SV node.
  - The Applicant is responsible for all costs associated with the operation of the escrow SV.
  - The escrow SV will **NOT** mint rewards on a block by block basis.
  - All escrow SV rewards will go to the Unclaimed Rewards pool.
- ⅔ of the Super Validator Operators will update their configurations to allow the escrowing SV node to host the full weight to be earned by the given Super Validator.
- Applicant is required to present proof of successful completed milestones to the Tokenomics Working Group.
  - Applicant is required to present a calculation for number of Canton Coin it should earn for meeting the requirements of the milestone.
- If the Tokenomics Working Group agrees the milestone has been met and agrees with the calculation, an announcement will be sent via the Tokenomics-Announce mailing list.
  - The GSF will update the `extraBeneficiary` to an active PartyID controlled by that Super Validator.
  - ⅔ of Super Validator Operators will then assign a portion of the Unclaimed Rewards to be minted by the Applicant’s Validator, based on the calculation approved by the Tokenomics Working Group.
- If any milestones and associated rewards are not achieved by the deadline:
  - Applicant will be notified they have not met a deliverable by the GSF.
  - Remaining SV Weight assigned to the `extraBeneficiary` SV will be removed from the GSF node configuration, and the total SV weight of the GSF SV node will be reduced by the same amount by a vote of the Super Validators.
  - The Tokenomics Working Group will make a recommendation to the SVs on what to do with the Unclaimed Rewards.
- Applicant is subject to **CIP-0045 : SV Operating Requirements**.
  - If, at any time, the Applicant has been rewarded SV Weight > 2.5, they are required to operate their SV within 6 months of crossing that Weight. This SV node will join the network with an SV weight of zero (0) and may add weights as the SV completes the milestones listed in this CIP.

## Other Impacts

This CIP will also supersede work to be done as part of CIP-0073 to allow allocating liveness rewards to non-operating parties. As a result, no additional changes will be made to allow granting of a ValidatorLicense with a default weight to an arbitrary party.

For the avoidance of doubt, functionality described in CIP-0073 regarding allowing a party to create a MintingDelegation contract will not be impacted by this CIP.

## Motivation

CIP-0003 was initially raised to provide incentives to operate necessary infrastructure to interact with the network and offset the initial friction associated with engaging in activity on the network. As an initial set of users has onboarded and a number of use cases have gone live, the network should shift its incentive structure toward active participation.

Adjusting the Liveness cap allows the Super Validators to signal a change in these incentives while removing the incentive to run infrastructure without active participation.

## Rationale

Over the period 11/8–12/7, roughly 70% of validator rewards minted from the validator minting pool are associated with liveness rewards. The network has provided infrastructure operators with 132M CC of liveness incentives during this time.

Given the growth of on-chain use cases and on-chain activity, combined with a substantial queue of new validators onboarding to the network, these incentives are likely to be no longer needed to bootstrap initial operators on the network.

As the ecosystem evolves and as more avenues emerge for acquiring Canton Coin to use to purchase traffic, Validators doing work on the network and acquiring Canton Coin via liveness rewards also provide less utility to the network as a means of facilitating participation.

## Backwards Compatibility

This CIP requires no new Daml models and no other breaking changes, so it will be fully backwards compatible.

## Copyright

CC0-1.0: Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal
