# CIP 0088

```
  CIP: CIP 0088  
  Title: Add Nuva as SV of Weight 3  
  Author: Eric Saraniecki  
  Status: Draft  
  Type: Governance  
  Created: 2025-09-16  
  Approved: TBD  
  License: CC0-1.0  
```

## Abstract

Add Nuva as SV of Weight 3.

---

## About Applicant

**NUVA** is a next-generation, permissionless vault marketplace offering curated access to tokenized real-world assets (RWAs).

Nuva is built by **Animoca Brands** — a global Web3 powerhouse headquartered in Hong Kong with a portfolio of 570+ companies, deep institutional relationships (including a joint venture with **Standard Chartered** for the HKD stablecoin) — together with **ProvLabs**, a U.S.-based Web3 developer driving the next generation of digitally native issuance on Provenance Blockchain with $15B+ TVL.

Nuva has curated RWA vaults from top-tier asset managers, where tokenized assets are composable, multi-chain, and support 24/7 mint/redeem for true on-chain liquidity. Tokenized assets will be integrated seamlessly with DeFi protocols enabling liquidity provisioning, leveraged looping & staking, combined with an innovative gamified social layer with on-chain credit scores to drive stickiness and engagement.

Their strong user acquisition could potentially bring **2,000,000+ wallets** from Animoca Brands’ community to Canton Network.

---

## Deliverables for Full SV Reward

| Deliverable | Acceptance Criteria | Deadline | Weight Earned |
|--------------|--------------------|-----------|----------------|
| **Product Go Live** | Integrate Nuva with Canton to serve both retail & institutional investors.<br><br>Integrate Nuva with Canton to allow users to deposit & withdraw stablecoin(s) on Canton Network from the assortment of tokenized RWAs on Nuva to earn yield, with the first available products being:<br><br>• **nuYLDS:** the first and only U.S. SEC-registered, yield bearing stablecoin<br>• **nuHELOCs:** home equity loans drawn from Figure’s $12B+ pool of Home Equity Line of Credit (“HELOCs”) | +180 days from CIP Approval | +1 |
| **Adoption Bonus** | 0.5 for every $100m TVL on Canton **OR** 0.5 for every 10,000 unique PartyIds interacting with the dApp | +180 days from Product Go Live | Max +2 |

---

## SV Reward Mechanics

An **extraBeneficiary PartyID** associated with the ‘escrowed’ Super Validator will be setup by the Foundation, or another SV node operator approved to provide SV rewards escrow services, with an SV Weight at the maximum earnable weight.

The Applicant is responsible for coordinating the process of setting up the escrowed weights with the GSF and the operator of the SV node.  
The Applicant is responsible for all costs associated with the operation of the escrow SV.  
The escrow SV will **NOT** mint rewards on a block-by-block basis.  
All escrow SV rewards will go to the **Unclaimed Rewards pool**.  
⅔ of the Super Validator Operators will update their configurations to allow the escrowing SV node to host the full weight to be earned by the given Super Validator.

Applicant is required to present proof of successful completed milestones to the **Tokenomics Working Group**.  

Applicant is required to present a calculation for number of Canton Coin it should earn for meeting the requirements of the milestone.  
If the Tokenomics Working Group agrees the milestone has been met and agrees with the calculation, an announcement will be sent via the **Tokenomics-Announce** mailing list.  

The **GSF** will update the extraBeneficiary to an active PartyID controlled by that Super Validator.  
⅔ of Super Validator Operators will then assign a portion of the Unclaimed Rewards to be minted by the Applicant’s Validator, based on the calculation approved by the Tokenomics Working Group.

If any milestones and associated rewards are not achieved by the deadline:  

* Applicant will be notified they have not met a deliverable by the GSF.  
* Remaining SV Weight assigned to the extraBeneficiary SV will be removed from the GSF node configuration, and the total SV weight of the GSF SV node will be reduced by the same amount by a vote of the Super Validators.  
* The Tokenomics Working Group will make a recommendation to the SVs on what to do with the Unclaimed Rewards.  

Applicant is subject to **CIP-0045: SV Operating Requirements**.  

If, at any time, the Applicant has been rewarded SV Weight > 2.5, they are required to operate their SV within **6 months** of crossing that Weight.  
This SV node will join the network with an SV weight of **zero (0)** and may add weights as the SV completes the milestones listed in this CIP.

---

## Appendix

### Approved Media Outlets

Coindesk  
Decrypt  
Cointelegraph  
The Block  
Metaverse Post  
Cryptonews.com  
Cryptopolitan  
CCN  
Blockworks  
SCMP  
Tech in Asia  
e27  
Technode  

---

### Approved Conferences to Host Events or Side-events at

TOKEN2049 Dubai  
TOKEN2049 Singapore  
ETHDenver  
Consensus Hong Kong  
ETHCC  
Korea Blockchain Week  
Bitcoin Asia  
Taipei Blockchain Week  
Web3 Festival  

---

## Copyright

* This CIP is licensed under **CC0-1.0:** [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

---

## Changelog

* **2025-09-16:** Initial Draft of Proposal  

